---
layout: post
title: "AI Complete Question Answering"
description: ""
category: [technical]
tags: [ai , ml, ai-hard, qa, paper review]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## [Towards AI-Complete Question Answering: A Set of Prerequisite Toy Tasks](http://arxiv.org/abs/1502.05698)The following are the tasks and their examples. It must be noted that the computer learns the pattern in the language and not the actual language as is shown in this example:Sbdm ip im vdu yonrckblms.Abf ip im vdu bhhigu.Sbdm yigaus ly vdu hbbvfnoo.Abf zumv vb vdu aivgdum.Mduku ip vdu hbbvfnoo? A:yonrckblmsMduku znp Abf fuhbku vdu aivgdum? A:bhhiguWhich is indeed a difficult task. ### Basic Factoid QA with Single Supporting FactJohn is in the playground.Bob is in the office.Where is John? A:playground### Factoid QA with Two Supporting FactsJohn is in the playground.Bob is in the office.John picked up the football.Bob went to the kitchen.Where is the football? A:playgroundWhere was Bob before the kitchen? A:office### Factoid QA with Three Supporting FactsJohn picked up the apple.John went to the office.John went to the kitchen.John dropped the apple.Where was the apple before the kitchen? A:office### Two Argument Relations: Subject vs. ObjectThe office is north of the bedroom.The bedroom is north of the bathroom.What is north of the bedroom? A: officeWhat is the bedroom north of? A: bathroom### Three Argument RelationsMary gave the cake to Fred.Fred gave the cake to Bill.Jeff was given the milk by Bill.Who gave the cake to Fred? A: MaryWho did Fred give the cake to? A: BillWhat did Jeff receive? A: milkWho gave the milk? A: Bill###  Yes/No questionsJohn is in the playground.Daniel picks up the milk.Is John in the classroom? A:noDoes Daniel have the milk? A:yes###  CountingDaniel picked up the football.Daniel dropped the football.Daniel got the milk.Daniel took the apple.How many objects is Daniel holding? A: two###  Lists / SetsDaniel picks up the football.Daniel drops the newspaper.Daniel picks up the milk.What is Daniel holding? milk, football###  Simple NegationSandra travelled to the office.Fred is no longer in the office.Is Fred in the office? A:noIs Sandra in the office? A:yes ###  Indefinite KnowledgeJohn is either in the classroom or the playground.Sandra is in the garden.Is John in the classroom? A:maybeIs John in the office? A:no###  Indefinite KnowledgeJohn is either in the classroom or the playground.Sandra is in the garden.Is John in the classroom? A:maybeIs John in the office? A:no###  Basic CoreferenceDaniel was in the kitchen.Then he went to the studio.Sandra was in the office.Where is Daniel? A:studio###  ConjunctionMary and Jeff went to the kitchen.Then Jeff went to the park.Where is Mary? A: kitchen###  Compound CoreferenceDaniel and Sandra journeyed to the office.Then they went to the garden.Sandra and John travelled to the kitchen.After that they moved to the hallway.Where is Daniel? A: garden### Time ManipulationIn the afternoon Julie went to the park.Yesterday Julie was at school.Julie went to the cinema this evening.Where did Julie go after the park? A:cinema### Basic DeductionSheep are afraid of wolves.Cats are afraid of dogs.Mice are afraid of cats.Gertrude is a sheep.What is Gertrude afraid of? A:wolves### Basic InductionLily is a swan.Lily is white.Greg is a swan.What color is Greg? A:white### Positional ReasoningThe triangle is to the right of the blue square.The red square is on top of the blue square.The red sphere is to the right of the blue square.Is the red sphere to the right of the blue square? A:yesIs the red square to the left of the triangle? A:yes### Reasoning about SizeThe football fits in the suitcase.The suitcase fits in the cupboard.The box of chocolates is smaller than the football.Will the box of chocolates fit in the suitcase? A:yes### Path FindingThe kitchen is north of the hallway.The den is east of the hallway.How do you go from den to kitchen? A: west, north### Reasoning about Agent's MotivationsJohn is hungry.John goes to the kitchen.John eats the apple.Daniel is hungry.Where does Daniel go? A:kitchenWhy did John go to the kitchen? A:hungry